Plan Tree House
===============

Introduction
------------

*Plan tree house* at Próspera is an attempt to combine nature as a prime
resource of Honduras with technology in order explore new fontiers. Along the
way, we will acquire new knowledge together. There is a path to collaboration
with a network of potential partners worlwide.

Creation of a new city in an island known for its natural beauty entails
thinking precisely about the integration of architecture and nature.

Próspera is the perfect location because the creation of a city in the jungle
requires exactly that, thinking about architecture and its careful integration
with nature. Plan tree house creates a positive image and can invite new people
to Próspera.  When @feklee visited the Próspera in the summer of 2021, there
have been individuals who signaled their support. Tristan brought up the idea to
collaborate with a local school.

At the core of plan tree house is the construction of a simple house from living
trees using a combination of traditional construction techniques and
contemporary research.

It is important to understand that, once planted, the house will take years, if
not decades to develop. Nevertheless, it has utility from day one! Slowly its
scaffold will be replaced by trees. Those trees are strangler figs, which send
airroots to the ground that eventually strangulate the bamboo from which the
scaffold is made. In the meantime the house can be used as a place for work or
play. Continuous maintenance, such as pruning and health monitoring is
necessary.

*The house grows together with those who take care of it.*


Timeline
--------

There are two tracks, one for planting in tropical zones, and a theoretical one.

![Timeline](https://i.imgur.com/VpIXLH5.jpg)

[Full size][2] 


Network
-------

There are various potential partners, and it will take time to forge collaborations.

![Drawing of network](https://i.imgur.com/GQ53gyh.jpg)

[Full size][1] (press left/right cursor keys to navigate through the map)


Learning objectives
-------------------

  * Structural engineering & architecture

  * Botany / plant biology

  * Thinking about the future / outside the box

  * Working with the body

  * Team work

  * Patience

  * Sustainability, ecologically as well as economically


Openess
-------

Examples: Dim Sum Labs, Open Source Ecology

Non profit project, although for profit projects are encouraged to spin off from it

Open and immediate sharing of all information

All communication will be openly shared.


Funding
-------

The plan is to rely on fees for participation as well as on donations. Finances
are kept fully transparent so that participants can see where the project is
going. The founders take care of initial funding for bootstraping.

Aside from the initial investment in land, expenses are very roughly estimated
at:

  * Scaffold (bamboo, etc.): 1.000 €

  * Saplings: 1.000 €

  * Tech, i.e. cameras, humidity sensors, irrigation system, etc.: 5.000 €

  * Travel, accommodation: depends on location

  * Compensation for tutoring: depends on partnership concept


Team
----

To become part of the team, start contributing, for example by adding your
thoughts to this document.


Site
----

Requirements:

  * Footprint of house itself, without tree crown: 5×5 m
  
  * Plenty of sun for photosynthesis

  * Additional space for construction materials and for maintenance access.



[1]: http://sites.inka.de/W1787/plan-tree/house/network/
[2]: http://sites.inka.de/W1787/plan-tree/house/timeline/